[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: Now we have a state full
component and not much has changed so far.
>> Brian Holt: Now what we're gonna do is
we're gonna start adding some state to it.
I don't know why I have
two different things here.
I'll just show you both syntaxes,
that's all.
Okay, so now we have to put in
another method called getInitialState.
>> Brian Holt: Always a danger of
writing this off the top of your head.
This actually doesn't take anything,
so it's just as that, okay.
This is though maybe the major key
difference between the class syntax and
this syntax.
With the class syntax you do
this instead of the constructor.
The constructors is like,
what's run when you create the new object.
Inside of their create
class way of writing this
you do instead of getInitialState.
So that's the biggest difference.
>> Brian Holt: Here, we're going to return
an object that we want to be the initial
state of our particular component.
So in this particular way,
we're gonna say return searchTerm and
then you can put whatever string you
want here like this is my search term.
Whatever you want the default thing to be,
okay?
And then what we're gonna do is we're
gonna go down to the input here and
we're gonna make this value equals
this.state.search term, okay?
>> Brian Holt: And just to show you that
you can reference this in multiple places.
What I'm gonna do here is svideo.
Just temporarily I'm gonna change this
to be this.state.searchTerm as well.
>> Brian Holt: We'll change
that back here in just a sec.
But this is just for
demonstration purposes.
Okay, so save all that.
>> Speaker 2: Comma after
the getInitialState.
>> Brian Holt: Yes, you do.
The dangers of changing
your notes on the fly.
So when you're doing the class syntax.
ES6 classes expect no
commas between methods.
I don't know why they decided that
because it just seems to be inconsistent.
But that's what the TC39 decided whereas
like now we're just an object, right?
You obviously need commas
inside of your objects.
Okay, so yeah, save that.
Yeah, that worked just fine.
So let's refresh.
So now it says,
this is my searchTerm right here,
and notice that's what it
says inside the box too.
But I want you to go and try and
type inside of the search box.
[SOUND] We broke it.
[LAUGH] How do you break an input?
It's actually very difficult
to break an input.
They work fairly well for the most part.
Let's talk about what React is
doing underneath the hood here.
What React is actually trying to do here
is every time I touch that keyboard,
React is like,
I know an event happened, right?
So I'm gonna fire off a re-render cycle.
Well you have to remember,
this is my search term.
So every time it re-renders,
it's going to put that in the value here.
And because nothing is actually changing,
there's nothing binding this
input to this search term.
So every time it fires off that re-render
it's it's just gonna put it right back
where it was right,
because nothing ever modifies it.
Does that makes sense?
I mean it's crazy, right?
Like it's kind of dumb and I actually,
like a lot of people don't like React for
that reason.
There's none of this magical to a binding
read like that's that's a term that
they're loves to throw around these two
way bindings also Ember does it too and
everyone does.
This takes a much more explicit
approach is like hey this is your UI,
you need to handle your own events.
So let's make it handle its own events.
>> Brian Holt: We are gonna put
in a another method in here
called handle search term event.
It takes in an event.
All this is gonna do is this
is gonna say this.setState.
>> Brian Holt: searchTerm:
event.target.value.
If anyone's ever done jQuery before,
that looks super familiar, right?
The event.target.value, right?
This event is actually not really a DOM
event, it's a synthetic event but
you can treat it just like a normal event.
They've emulated the API perfectly.
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
So now we have our event handler.
Now we have to actually
make it handle the event.
So we're gonna go down here to
the input and then we're are gonna say,
onChange this.handleSearchTermEvent.
>> Brian Holt: So this part right here.
So we had added handleSearchTermEvent and
we added this onChange right here.
>> Brian Holt: Any questions about that?
To make sure I'm not
blowing up anything here.
Let's get here.
>> Brian Holt: And
let's go ahead and refresh here.
So now hopefully.
>> Brian Holt: If you look over here it's
magically on the fly updating our title
over here.
So now,
it actually is bound to each other.
>> Brian Holt: Data binding
is not free in React.
But it's pretty cheap.
It's not very expensive to do.
I like it better because there's
no black magic here, right.
I hate when I'm doing writing code,
it's why I don't write Rails, right?
If you buy into the Rails methodology and
you buy into the Rails black magic,
it's the best, right.
Because you do things and
like I do one thing,
then you skip steps two three four and
five and you're omit the step six, right.
My programming mind doesn't work as I
wanna know what's happening on the steps
in the middle.
And particularly if there's a bug in the
middle of those steps like then I'm just
livid right because they
messed it up not me.
And if I have bugs, I want them to be
my bugs because I wrote them because
I'm the idiot,
not someone else is the idiot.
So that's why I like this,
there's no black magic to it.
I know exactly how I'm getting
from point A to point B.
A lot of people will comment
to me like this feels like
back in 1999 when I was saying like
onChange right directly in the DOM.
I feel like this is OK because
on the flip side, right,
because now I can say onChange
this.handleSearchTerm.
Where is this start handleSearchTerm?
It's right here,
like it's literally just above it, right.
Whereas in the other case, you'd read it
in your HTML and then it'd be in some
other random JavaScript file that who
the hell knows where that is, right.
This is nice because all of our concerns
are just mashed together in one component.
Okay.
Any questions about that?
>> Speaker 3: So like 95% of the time
though, input binding shouldn't be much
more complicated than just
modifying the string, right.
>> Brian Holt: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 3: And
there's no shorthand for that?
>> Brian Holt: There is,
there is link events.
It's a React add-on, so
it actually is maintained by React itself.
And there's link state,
that's what it's called, React link state.
So if you wanna Google and use that,
it's not a whole lot more short than this,
to the point that sometimes like
you need to do some sort of other
data merging in here rather than,
it's not so simple as the sidestep state.
So the nice thing about doing
it the long way, the long way,
like the additional 20 characters
you are gonna type here is
now I already have this method here if
I have to go ever change in the future.